<!DOCTYPE html>
<html><head>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=windows-1252">



    
<title>PWG May 2017 Face-to-Face Meeting Summary</title>



    <!--subtitle May 9, 2017 -->
  
<meta name="author" content="PWG">


</head>
  <body>
    
<p>The Printer Working Group held a "virtual" face-to-face meeting via 
WebEx teleconferences on May 2-4, 2017. This event was held&nbsp; in 
collaboration with <a href="http://www.linuxfoundation.org/collaborate/workgroups/openprinting">Linux Foundation OpenPrinting Workgroup</a>.
 Sessions were presented by both organizations over the event's 3 days. 
Representatives from HP, Xerox, Lexmark, Apple, Canon, Oki, Artifex and 
Canonical attended the meetings. We discussed status of current projects
 and liaisons with other groups, and reviewed 
several drafts of in-progress specifications. Here is a summary of the 
proceedings.</p>




    
<h2>PWG</h2>



<p>In the PWG Plenary, we reviewed the state of the projects hosted on the <a href="https://github.com/istopwg">PWG GitHub site</a>.
 We briefly covered the status of each working group, noting that the 
Semantic Model working group is now in hibernation, and the Imaging 
Device Security (IDS) working group will hold periodic meetings as part 
of its new role to review and discuss issues implementing the new HCD 
Protection Profile and other HCD standards. We discussed the PWG's 
projects on Github. Finally, we 
discussed our liaison relationships with Trusted Network Computing, 
Mopria, ISO JTC1 and AMSC.<br>
</p>



<h2>OpenPrinting Sessions</h2>



<p>In the Linux OpenPrinting sessions on the first day, we learned about
 the current major issues affecting printing on Linux and other open 
source operating systems. In the OpenPrinting plenary, Ira McDonald 
discussed the state of Linux OpenPrinting. Mike Sweet reviewed the state
 of <a href="http://cups.org/">CUPS</a> and discussed the PWG's 
ippsample project, which is derived from CUPS but is more purely based 
IPP, and doesn't have the CUPS legacy APIs or facilities such as PPDs. 
Aveek Basu discussed an upcoming Google Summer of Code project to 
implement a new Common Print Dialog. Till Kamppeter discussed the 
cups-filters project's effort to maintain facilities no longer supported
 by the CUPS project, to continue support for legacy driver systems and 
older devices.</p>


<p>On the third day, Michael Vrhel reviewed the current state of 
Ghostscript and MuPDF, and examined some recent enhancements to those 
systems. Following that, a "PWG / OpenPrinting Collaborative Projects 
Discussion" was held, opening the floor to suggestions for areas in 
which the PWG and OpenPrinting might collaborate. Finally, we discussed 
the desire to have a physical (non-virtual) PWG / OpenPrinting summit in
 2018.<br>
</p>




<h2>Imaging Device Security (IDS) Workgroup</h2>


<p>In the Imaging Device Security Workgroup session on the morning of 
the second day, Alan Sukert reviewed an update to the IDS WG charter, to
 better cover its current mission to review and discuss issues 
implementing the new HCD Protection Profile and other HCD standards. 
Alan and Brian Smithson then led a 
discussion reviewing the results of the latest MFP TC Meeting, which was
 held the week before.</p>
<p>Future meetings will be announced on the <a href="https://www.pwg.org/mailman/listinfo/ids">ids</a> mailing list.<br>
</p>
<p></p>
<h2>Semantic Model (SM) Workgroup</h2>




<p>In the Semantic Model Workgroup session, Bill Wagner&nbsp; discussed 
the workgroup's status, specifically how the workgroup will be put into a
 state of "hibernation", since its purpose of maintaining a semantic 
model distinct from IPP is no longer desired by the PWG members. He 
reviewed the remaining action items that need to be accomplished before 
the workgroup actually enters hibernation, including publishing the 
latest "Mapping CIP4 JDF to PWG Print Job Ticket v1.0 (JDFMAP)" draft as
 a "Best Practices" whitepaper rather than a candidate standard, which 
removes the need for prototyping and will allow the document to be 
finalized in a reasonable amount of time. It was agreed that the Last 
Call and Call for Objections steps will be handled via email and don't 
require further meetings.<br>
</p>


<p>All future meetings of the Semantic Model workgroup were cancelled until such time as the workgroup emerged from hibernation.<br>
</p>





<h2>Internet Printing Protocol (IPP) Workgroup</h2>




    
<p>In the Internet Printing Protocol Workgroup session, Ira McDonald 
presented the latest draft of 
the IPP System Service specification. Mike Sweet presented the latest 
draft of the "PWG 3D Print Job Ticket and Associated Capabilities v1.0 (PJT3D)" specification. The workgroup agreed
 that the latter document was stable enough to proceed with PWG Last 
Call and PWG Formal Vote. Smith 
Kennedy presented an updated draft of his "IPP 
Get-User-Printer-Attributes Operation" whitepaper, and reviewed a set of
 sequence diagrams that intended to articulate the set of HTTP actions 
that occur in the process of performing HTTP authentication of various 
types. His "IPP Presets" whitepaper was saved for the next IPP WG 
teleconference.</p>

<p>
</p>


<p>The next IPP Workgroup conference calls are May 11, 2017 and May 25, 
2017. Meeting details can be found on the <a href="https://www.pwg.org/ipp/">IPP Workgroup page</a>. Please subscribe
 to the <a href="https://www.pwg.org/mailman/listinfo/ipp">ipp</a> mailing list for details.</p>


<h2>Next Meeting</h2>



    
<p>The PWG will hold its next face-to-face meeting August 8-9, 2017. A 
location (virtual vs. physical) for the meeting hasn't been chosen yet.</p>


<p><br>
</p>




  


</body></html>